welcome to the man of recaps this is the
umbrella academy season one back in 1989
there were 43 mysterious births from
women who were not previously pregnant
eccentric billionaire and adventurer sir
reginald hargreaves went around the
world collecting them he got seven of
them and they did indeed develop
superpowers so he formed them into a
child superhero squad
the umbrella academy in the present
they've all grown up number one is
luther he's got super strength and is
living on the moon more on that later
number two diego has super knife
throwing powers and is still doing the
whole master vigilante thing number
three alison has become a movie star she
has the power to control people if she
says i heard a rumor you do that thing
number four is klaus the hilarious
eccentric drug addict who absolutely
steals every scene he's in number five
disappeared at a young age and number
six had crazy tentacle monster powers
but he died young too but he's managed
to stay in touch with his brother klaus
that's klaus's power he can talk to the
dead
last and least is number seven vanya she
was not on the team because she didn't
have any superpowers she's just an
ordinary average violin player who wrote
an expose on their family which was also
meh but now their adopted father died so
the gang's back together for the funeral
luther's the only one who stuck by dad
all these years the rest of them hated
him because he was a terrible father
only cared about the superhero team had
no idea how to raise kids they were
basically raised by their nanny who they
call mom
and she is by the way a robot also their
butler pogo the genetically modified
intelligent chimpanzee because that's
just how sir original hargreaves rolled
so these siblings don't really get along
but their unique upbringing has bonded
them together there's a beautiful scene
where luther cranks the music and
they're all dancing in their own weird
way in different rooms of the house
it's really fun but that night the
mysterious portal opens in the backyard
and outfalls a kid
who is this it's their long-lost brother
number five he's got teleporting powers
and one day as a kid he tried to
teleport through time
it worked but he couldn't get back he's
been stuck in the future for
40-something years
and so it's hilarious because he's a
grumpy middle-aged man back in his 13
year old body he goes to the nearby
donut shop for a coffee but he's
accosted by a bunch of armed goons he's
not surprised to see them though and
they have an
epic phyto he's teleporting around like
nightcrawler and x-men 2.
who heard those guys what's going on
well five finally comes clean to vania
that the future he was in was
post-apocalyptic he was finally able to
come back to stop the apocalypse which
is in just a week his only clue is a
prosthetic eye that theoretically
belongs to the person responsible he
tries to get answers but the adults
aren't taking him seriously so he
recruits his brother klaus who is
technically an adult class is just the
right kind of crazy though to get
answers unfortunately there's no answers
to get that eye has not been sold yet
now it's romance time luther and alison
have always had kind of a crush on each
other
they're adopted it's fine some years
back she got married though but now
they're breaking up ooh but she's super
sad she's lost custody of her daughter
so not the time to make a move one night
she used her rumor power to make her
daughter go to sleep
every parent's dream but in reality very
not cool diego has a crush on detective
patch they actually used to date but now
he's mostly just a pain in her butt
vanya has a new boyfriend too
leonard peabody he signed up for her
violin lessons and is a really nice
average guy just like her they hit it
off five has mentioned that he wasn't
alone in the apocalypse he had a wife
delores
unfortunately she is a mannequin now
meet time traveling assassins hazel and
cha-cha they're hilarious though because
of how they treat their super crazy cool
job as very mundane
they are very good at their job though
in track down five shooting up this
department store wearing hilarious
mascot masks why because it's cool
luther meanwhile's been investigating
dad's death and turns out mom either
intentionally or accidentally poisoned
him she has no memory of this and is
acting spacier than usual so they think
maybe her programming is corrupted we'll
have to shut her down diego in
particular is very against this he had a
special relationship
with mom she helped him overcome his
stutter as a kid but talking to her in
the present he's got to admit she's not
really all there and so it's a tearful
scene as he shuts her down
pogo turns it back on though these two
have some sort of secret anyway hazel
and chacha find the house and start
shooting it up but they weren't
expecting it to be full of former child
superheroes they drop a chandelier on
luther to escape but he's fine those
aren't normal giant muscles
they're gorilla giant muscles oh that's
new after all his siblings left to lead
their own lives he was the only one that
stuck around and went on missions for
dad on one of them he was grievously
injured
and the only way to save him was the
experimental gorilla formula
oh he's super hairy now while this whole
fight was going on klaus was blissfully
ignorant so hazel and chacha kidnapped
him on their way out they tried
torturing him but mostly he's into it
and he doesn't know anything anyway he
does remember though that five mentioned
the apocalypse and so hazel and chacha
realize if they do their job and kill
five they'll be causing the apocalypse
which gives hazel second thoughts
as a side effect of being kidnapped
though klaus is starting to sober up
which gives him a better connection to
ghosts in fact that's why he's high all
the time it's the only way to shut him
out now though he finds himself
surrounded by all the people hazel and
chacha have killed and when he starts
talking to him for him hazel's having
even more doubts he loves donuts and is
starting to have a crush on the donut
girl agnes she wants to retire and
travel the country bird watching and
hazel's like yeah you know that simple
life sounds kind of nice around this
time diego is patching things up with
patch she is a good detective and finds
klaus almost immediately
but unfortunately oh no she gets shot
diego is super sad and now unfortunately
his prints are all of the crime scene
during the fight class escaped through
the air vent which is where hazel hit
their time travel briefcase so klaus
grabs it on his way out and when he goes
to open it
poof teleported through time he pops
back up the next morning but it's been a
whole year for him
he landed in the middle of the vietnam
war where he accidentally enlisted he
met a real nice guy named dave and they
fell in love but no dave died in combat
and now klaus is determined to sober up
so he can see dave again things are
going great by the way with vania and
leonard but today she's auditioning for
first chair and she's out of her anxiety
meds so she starts to play and is
average as usual but wait something's
different this time oh these guys are
enraptured and she gets it but leonard
has a secret he intentionally dumped her
meds what's going on with him now five
finally fills in his brothers about the
apocalypse and how they all die trying
to stop it after fortius years of
surviving the apocalypse alone he met a
mysterious woman she's called the
handler and works for a time travel
commission that makes sure history
happens as it's supposed to she's here
to recruit five to become a time travel
assassin
and so he spent years going around
making sure history happened one day
though right before assassinating jfk he
finally figured out how he could travel
back for it to work though his body
reverted to its 13 year old
self and that brings us up to speed long
story short he arranges a meet with
hazel and chacha but it's interrupted by
their brother's class in diego
bustin in an ice cream truck time
freezes though for all but five the
handlers come back to recruit him again
he wants to stop the apocalypse but
she's like yo that just can't happen why
don't you forget all this and come back
work for us where you belong so the next
day the siblings have all gathered to
try to stop the apocalypse just then
bonnie comes to invite them to her
concert and sees they've called a family
meeting without her and this brings up
years of resentment they never treated
her like part of the team as she's
venting to leonard the lamp posts are
all bending and oh she might have
superpowers after all turns out she's
always had these powers but they were
maybe too strong so her father put her
on medication to suppress them luther
assumes the apocalypse might have
something to do with why dad sent him to
the moon but when he finds all the
reports he sent
never even opened he realized dad sent
him there just to feel useful
the last four years of his life have
been wasted luckily allison's there to
consult him they go hang out in the fort
they built as teenagers and he finally
confesses his feelings for her they have
a dressed up dreamlike la la land dance
number
it's a beautiful moment and they have
their first kiss so five has rejoined
the commission not as an assassin this
time he's being groomed for management
but he's playing them he's really here
just to learn more about the apocalypse
he sends hazel and chacha messages to
kill each other then blows up all the
briefcases and pieces out of there this
completely undoes that whole episode as
it's wednesday morning again and this
time five drops into the middle of them
hey i just took out the time commission
single-handedly you're welcome and now
he knows who causes the apocalypse a guy
named harold jenkins harold jenkins was
a kid obsessed with the umbrella academy
but he had no powers so was rejected
humiliatingly he also grew up with an
abusive father and so one day had enough
and oh
killed him he spent 12 years in prison
plotting his revenge on the umbrella
academy
and it's not really much of a secret
harold's the real name of vanya's
boyfriend leonard allison goes to warner
while diego's temporarily arrested on
suspicion of murdering patch luther
finds out about his fake moon mission
and has his existential crisis again but
this time allison's not there to console
him so he goes out to a rave and lets
his freak flag fly and instead of a
beautiful moment with the love of his
life he has a sloppy one-night stand
with a random rave girl meanwhile
klaus has a near-death experience and
finally talks to their adopted father
sir reginald hargreaves he is as usual a
bit of a dick
but he did know the apocalypse was
coming and he killed himself because
that was the only way to get the team
back together pogo and mom were both in
on it that was their secret and before
he can explain more he fades away
also he might be an alien so watch out
for that now hazel and chacha get the
fake assignments from five and are
pitted against each other but hazel's
not gonna kill his partner he's done
with this life he's gonna run away with
agnes leonard is trying to encourage
vania to learn how to use her powers but
she's not really interested that night
though they're attacked by some ruffians
and so to save her boyfriend oh
vanya boom power explosion in the fight
leonard lost his eye oh that's how that
happened
and turns out the fight was staged
leonard paid those guys to attack him to
force vanya to use her powers and it
worked vanya is willing to learn how to
control him now turns out they're
involved with sound so
playing the violin actually amplifies
them just then alison makes it up there
hey bad news your boyfriend's a psycho
but bonnie's not willing to hear that
right now she's more concerned with the
fact that she has powers this clicks a
memory into place for allison their
father used allison's powers to make
vanya forget about hers but they phrased
it i heard a rumor you think you're
ordinary and so a lifetime of low
self-esteem not vania's fault but
magically imposed on her alison tries to
apologize but vania's real mad now and
is starting to lose control to calm her
down allison tries to use her rumor
powers but oh
violin both throat slash it was an
accident she lost control didn't mean to
hurt her luckily alison survives she
just won't be able to speak for a while
now this is playing perfectly in harold
jenkins evil plan to turn vanya against
her siblings but soon she finds out he's
been manipulating her and he drops the
nice guy act goes full abuser
i'm the only one that thinks you're
special you're nothing without me but
bunya's not taking that she uses her
powers oh stabs this scumbag
you go girl vania comes back to
apologize for alison secret family's
forgiveness
but luther doesn't trust her and locks
her up allison pleads to let her go but
luther's being a dumb overprotective guy
and so keeps her locked up which is a
really good way to push someone over the
edge to the dark side
boom vania busts out of there full super
villain mode now and it's pretty
apparent that they changed some things
but vanya is still gonna cause the
apocalypse meanwhile cha cha's track
hazel down gonna kill agnes but oh time
freezes again and the handler's here she
apologizes for the mix up five sent you
fake info but now your real job is to go
make sure the apocalypse happens and you
can retire
do whatever you want but hazel doesn't
trust the company or his partner anymore
and
boom i'll blast josh out of the car goes
in there shoots the handler and rescues
his lady love meanwhile vanya's concert
is tonight and though she's got full
supervillain now she still pays her bus
fare
she's playing in this concert no matter
what allison thinks she can calm her
down but the boys aren't taking chances
go to tackle her which ho does not work
she's fiddling harder than ever now in
fact she's turning all white and one
could reasonably assume that when she
finishes this song the world will
explode there's more time goons after
him but now it's klaus's time to shine
as he sobered up he's learned he can not
just talk to ghosts but feel them too
that's never happened before so he
powers up and physically manifests his
brother ben that oh
tentacle monster power takes all these
guys out the boys try one last time to
tackle vanya which
still doesn't work but while she's
distracted with her brothers allison got
behind her
she can't bring herself to kill her
sister though puts it next to her ear to
blame oh distract her
yes they saved their sister and the
world or wait did they though all the
power she was channeling shot off
harmlessly into space
except the moon was in the way so not so
harmlessly
yup by trying to stop the apocalypse you
ended up causing it classic time travel
so it's apocalypse time hazel managed to
grab a briefcase and he and agnes peace
out
cha-cha not so lucky the team's only
hope is for five to time travel them out
of there but who knows where they'll end
up
and that's how season one comes to an
end hit that subscribe button for more
of the best recaps of tv and movies
and click the join button to support the
channel and be a recap champion